.TH cowspeak 1 "DEC 16 2018" "2.05" "cowspeak man page"

.SH NAME
cowspeak \- Display an animal with a random quote or your own text.

.SH SYNOPSIS
cowspeak, the program displays an animal with a random quote or your own text.

.SH OPTIONS

.B   --art or -a

	Display a tutorial on adding your own art.


.B   --blink or -b

	Blink the texts (not supported in all terminals yet).

.B   --borderh=<ch>/-brh=<ch>

	Horizontal border character.

.B   --borderv=<ch>/-brv=<ch>

	Vertical border character.

.B   --bubble=<text>/-bbl=<text>

	Specify the character of speech balloons.

.B   --documentation or -d

	Display the whole documentation including this help.

.B   --download or -dl

	Download missing files and database from Github.

.B   --file=<path> or -f=<path>

	Specify the ASCII file path to display your own ASCII art.

.B   --help or -h

	Display this help.

.B   --invert or -inv

	Invert everything text! Read from right to left in English!!

.B   --manual or -m

	Display a manual. Same as documentation.

.B   --net=<url> or -n=<url>

	Read data from a website (in curl format).

.B   --no-art or -na

	Don't display the animal.

.B   --no-colour or -nc

	Don't colourize the output.

.B   --no-text or -nt

	Don't show any text, and only show the animal.

.B   --read=<file> or -r=<file>

	Read a file.

.B   --reverse or -rev

	Cowspeak reads upside down!

.B   --rotate-colour or -rc

	Rotate the output colours in each line.

.B   --show-arts or -sa

	Show all available installed arts in the default directory.

.B   --text=<text> or -t=<text>

	Display a custom text.

.B   --version or -v

	Display the current #{__FILE__} version.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SH			No argument:
				Show a random existing character with a random fortune and colours.

.SH			Specify the horizontal border character

			(the following example will draw the border with * character):

				cowspeak --borderh='*'

				cowspeak -brh='*'

			Note that if you specify more than a character, the animal will select any one at its will.


.SH			Specify the horizontal border character

			(the following example will draw the border with * character):

				cowspeak --borderv='*'

				cowspeak -brv='*'

			Note that if you specify more than a character, the animal will select any one at its will.


.SH			Specify the speech bubbles character

			(the following example will draw the border with * character):

				cowspeak --bubble='*'

				cowspeak -bbl='*'

			Note that if you specify more than one character, the animal will use the whole string.


.SH			For custom text:
				cowspeak --text='text' or -t='text'

.SH			To display your own ASCII art:
				cowspeak --file='path/file.art'

.SH			To display your own art with your text:
				cowspeak --file=directory/file.art --text='your text'

.SH			To read a file from the storage:
				cowspeak --read='path/file.extension' or -r='path/file.extension'

.SH			Pipe another program's output to cowspeak (also accepts arguments):
				echo hello | cowspeak

				echo hello | cowspeak --argument -short_argument

.SH			To read from the internet in curl format:
				cowspeak --net=http://www.example.net

				cowspeak --net=http://www.example.net --argument -short_argument

.SH AUTHOR
Sourav Goswami (souravgoswami@protonmail.com)
